## Record's id

#### record.id

Predefined record's attribute, the `id` is an arbitrary string (integer id or UUID).
`id` is typically generated by the server. It is used in JSON for id-references.

Records can be retrieved by `id` from collections, and there can be just one instance
of the record with the same `id` in the particular collection.

#### `static` idAttribute = 'attrName'

A record's unique identifier is stored under the `id` attribute.
If you're directly communicating with a backend (CouchDB, MongoDB) that uses a different unique key, 
you may set a Record's `idAttribute` to transparently map from that key to id.

Record's `id` property will still be linked to Record's id, no matter which value `idAttribute` has.

```javascript
@define class Meal extends Record {
  static idAttribute =  "_id";
  static attributes = {
      _id : Number,
      name : ''
  }
}

const cake = new Meal({ _id: 1, name: "Cake" });
alert("Cake id: " + cake.id);
```

#### record.isNew()

Has this record been saved to the server yet? If the record does not yet have an `id`, it is considered to be new.

## id-references

Serializable references to shared records are called an _id-references_. It is represented as `record.id` in JSON,
and there must be the populated master collection of records on the client in order to resolve ids on parse.

There are two kinds of id-references: one-to-many, and many-to-many. They are declared with the special kind of attribute annotation. 
Id-references behaves in the same way as shared attributes, but _inner changes_ in referenced objects are _not observed_.

#### `attrDef` attr : Record.from( sourceCollection )

Declare an attribute to be the record from the particular collection.

Serialized as `record.id`.

#### `attrDef` attr : Collection.subsetOf( sourceCollection )

Declare an attribute to be the collection, which is the subset of the particular collection.

Serialized as an array of record ids.

### Relative paths to source collection

`sourceCollection` can be the string with the dot-separated _relative object path_ to the collection.
In this case, it is resolved dynamically relative to the record's `this`.

    @define class State extends Record {
        items : Item.Collection,
        selected : Record.from( 'items' ) // Will resolve to `this.items` 
    }

